

English
Trillium
Other languages:	
English
 
français
Availability: Aug/07 2025
Login nodes
CPU subcluster: trillium.alliancecan.ca
GPU subcluster: trillium-gpu.alliancecan.ca
Globus collections: alliancecan#trillium (file system)
alliancecan#hpss (archive/nearline)

Data transfer nodes (rsync, scp, sftp,...): tri-dm{1,2,3,4}.scinet.utoronto.ca
Automation nodes
CPU subcluster: robot{1,2,3,4}.scinet.utoronto.ca
GPU subcluster: trig-robot1.scinet.utoronto.ca
Open OnDemand: ondemand.scinet.utoronto.ca (includes JupyterLab)
Portal: my.scinet.utoronto.ca
Trillium is a large parallel cluster built by Lenovo Canada and hosted by SciNet at the University of Toronto.

The Trillium Quickstart has specific instructions for Trillium, where the user experience is similar to that on the other national clusters, but still slightly different.

Current users transitioning from Niagara are strongly encouraged to peruse the documentation on the Transition from Niagara to Trillium.


Contents
1	Storage
2	High-performance network
3	Node characteristics
4	Technical details
4.1	Cooling and energy efficiency
4.2	Storage system
4.3	Backup and archive storage
5	Site specifics
5.1	Logging in
5.2	Internet access
5.3	Home space
5.4	Project space
5.5	Scratch space
5.6	Nearline space
5.7	Local disk space
5.8	Access through Open OnDemand (OOD)
5.9	Job scheduling
Storage
Parallel storage: 29 petabytes, NVMe SSD based storage from VAST Data.

High-performance network
Nvidia “NDR” Infiniband network
400 Gbit/s network bandwidth for CPU nodes
800 Gbit/s network bandwidth for GPU nodes
Fully non-blocking, meaning every node can talk to every other node at full bandwidth simultaneously.
Node characteristics
Login Node	nodes	cores	available memory	CPU	GPU
trillium.alliancecan.ca	1224	192	749G or 767000M	2 x AMD EPYC 9655 (Zen 5) @ 2.6 GHz, 384MB cache L3	
trillium‑gpu.alliancecan.ca	63	96	749G or 767000M	1 x AMD EPYC 9654 (Zen 4) @ 2.4 GHz, 384MB cache L3	4 x NVidia H100 SXM (80 GB memory), connected via NVLink
Technical details
Cooling and energy efficiency
Trillium is fully direct liquid cooled using warm water (35–40 °C input), resulting in:

PUE below 1.03 (high energy efficiency)
Use of closed-loop dry fluid coolers, avoiding evaporative towers and new water usage
Heat reuse: Trillium supplies excess heat to nearby facilities to minimize climate impact
Storage system
The VAST high-performance file system is comprised of a unified 29 PB NVMe-backed storage pool, with:

29 PB effective capacity (deduplicated via VAST)
16.7 PB raw flash capacity
714 GB/s read bandwidth, 275 GB/s write bandwidth
10 million read IOPS, 2 million write IOPS
POSIX and S3 access protocols under a unified namespace
48 C-Boxes and 14 D-Boxes for data services
Backup and archive storage
An additional 114 PB HPSS tape-based archive is available for nearline storage:

Dual-copy archive across geographically separate libraries
Used for both backup and archival purposes
Backups are managed using Atempo backup software
Site specifics
Do not assume that things work the same on Trillium as on the other clusters. While there is a large degree of conformity, Trillium was designed for large-scale computations and this has resulted in a few different design and policy decisions.

The specifics of Trillium are described only briefly below; please read the Trillium Quickstart for details.

Logging in
Password access to the login nodes is disabled. You must use SSH Keys and MFA.
There are separate login and robot nodes for CPU and GPU subclusters.
Internet access
The internet cannot be reached from compute nodes.
Interactive Apps on OnDemand, however, do have internet access.
Home space
You will have space for up to 100 GB or 1 million files in your $HOME directory.
$HOME cannot be written to from compute jobs.
Interactive Apps on OnDemand, however, do have write access to HOME.
Project space
You can find links to the project spaces to which you have access in the $HOME/links directory.
Default accounts have access to a project space of 1 TB per group.
It is not possible to request more project space on Trillium through RAS.
$PROJECT cannot be written to from compute jobs.
Scratch space
Users have a nominal quota of 25TB, but are expected to clean up all unused data.
There is no purging policy yet, but this is subject to change in the future.
Nearline space
The nearline storage on Trillium is not mounted on the nodes but needs to be accessed via jobs submitted to the HPSS SLURM partition, or via Globus.
Local disk space
Trillium nodes have no local storage.
For certain workflows, using the RAM disk can be a possibility. To reflect this, the $SLURM_TMPDIR environment variable points to a folder on the RAM disk.
Access through Open OnDemand (OOD)
Instead of JupyterHub, Trillium has OpenOnDemand. This support a growing number of applications from your browser, such as JupyterLab, VS Code, RStudio, MATLAB, ParaView, the DDT debugger, as well as a
terminal and job submissions.

Job scheduling
The resources in the CPU subcluster are scheduled by whole 192-core node.
The resources in the GPU subcluster are scheduled by whole GPU (no "MIG"), or by whole node.
For other scheduling specifics, please see the Trillium Quickstart.


Navigation menu
English
Log in
PageDiscussion
ReadView sourceView history
Search
Search Alliance Doc
Wiki Main Page
Support
Getting an account
Getting started
Getting help
Running jobs
System status
Resources
Fir
Narval
Nibi
Rorqual
Trillium
Cloud
Killarney
tamIA
Vulcan
Quantum computing
Available software
The Alliance
Alliance website
CCDB
Resource Allocation Competition (RAC)
Acknowledging the Alliance
Alliance policies
Legacy resources
Béluga
Cedar
Graham
Niagara
Authoring
Guidelines
MediaWiki Help
Recent changes
Tools
What links here
Related changes
Special pages
Printable version
Permanent link
Page information
This page was last edited on 16 April 2026, at 19:47.
Privacy policyAbout Alliance DocDisclaimersMobile view
Powered by MediaWiki