

English
Vulcan
Other languages:	
English
 
français
Availability: April 15, 2025
Login node: vulcan.alliancecan.ca
Globus collection: Vulcan Globus v5
System Status Page: https://status.alliancecan.ca/system/Vulcan
Portal: https://portal.vulcan.alliancecan.ca
Vulcan is a cluster dedicated to the needs of the Canadian scientific Artificial Intelligence community. Vulcan is located at the University of Alberta and is managed by the University of Alberta and Amii. It is named after the town Vulcan, AB, located in southern Alberta.

This cluster is part of the Pan-Canadian AI Compute Environment (PAICE).


Contents
1	Site-specific policies
2	Access
3	Vulcan hardware specifications
4	Storage system
5	Network interconnects
6	Scheduling
7	Software
Site-specific policies
Internet access is not generally available from the compute nodes. A globally available Squid proxy is enabled by default with certain domains whitelisted. Contact technical support if you are not able to connect to a domain and we will evaluate whether it belongs on the whitelist.

Maximum duration of jobs is 7 days.

Vulcan is currently open to all researchers doing research on AI or applying AI methods in their research.

Access
To be able to log in to Vulcan, you must request access in CCDB.

To be able to submit jobs, you must be a member of an AIP RAP. If you are a PI and you do not already have one, apply for General Access to PAICE Systems.

If you are a PI and need to sponsor other researchers you will have to add them to your AIP RAP. Follow these steps to manage users:

Go to the "Resource Allocation Projects" table on the CCDB home page.
Locate the RAPI of your AIP project (with the aip- prefix) and click on it to reach the RAP management page.
At the bottom of the RAP management page, click on "Manage RAP memberships."
Enter the CCRI of the user you want to add in the "Add Members" section.
Vulcan hardware specifications
Nodes	Model	CPU	Cores	System Memory	GPUs per node	Total GPUs
252	Dell R760xa	2 x Intel Xeon Gold 6448Y	64	512 GB	4 x NVIDIA L40s 48GB	1008
Storage system
Vulcan's storage system uses a combination of NVMe flash and HDD storage running on the Dell PowerScale platform with a total usable capacity of approximately 5PB. Home, Scratch, and Project are on the same Dell PowerScale system.

Home space	
Location of /home directories.
Each /home directory has a small fixed quota.
Not allocated via RAS or RAC. Larger requests go to the /project space.
Has daily backup
Scratch space	
For active or temporary (scratch) storage.
Not allocated.
Large fixed quota per user.
Inactive data will be purged.
Project space	
Large adjustable quota per project.
Has daily backup.
Network interconnects
Nodes are interconnected with 100Gbps Ethernet with RoCE (RDMA over Converged Ethernet) enabled.

Scheduling
The Vulcan cluster uses the Slurm scheduler to run user workloads. The basic scheduling commands are similar to the other national systems.

Software
Module-based software stack.
Both the standard Alliance software stack as well as cluster-specific software.
Navigation menu
English
Log in
PageDiscussion
ReadView sourceView history
Search
Search Alliance Doc
Wiki Main Page
Support
Getting an account
Getting started
Getting help
Running jobs
System status
Resources
Fir
Narval
Nibi
Rorqual
Trillium
Cloud
Killarney
tamIA
Vulcan
Quantum computing
Available software
The Alliance
Alliance website
CCDB
Resource Allocation Competition (RAC)
Acknowledging the Alliance
Alliance policies
Legacy resources
Béluga
Cedar
Graham
Niagara
Authoring
Guidelines
MediaWiki Help
Recent changes
Tools
What links here
Related changes
Special pages
Printable version
Permanent link
Page information
This page was last edited on 24 March 2026, at 18:25.
Privacy policyAbout Alliance DocDisclaimersMobile view
Powered by MediaWiki